Hey everybody, in this notebook slash
lecture, we're gonna be going over
just a quick mild introduction
to the normal distribution.
Before you check this out you should
look at the binomial distribution first.
So we'll just start with
a quick definition of
the probability density function for
a normal distribution,
and then we'll see how to create that
distribution either using SciPy or NumPy.
So the distribution is defined
by this PDF right here.
You can see right here.
And this Z term is equal
to X minus mu over sigma,
where mu is equal to the mean,
sigma is the standard deviation,
and then you have pi and
Euler's number N dot PDF.
So the total area bounded by that
curve of that PDF function and
the X axis is equal to one.
So one is your total probability space,
and
that's equal to the area under that curve.
And we'll see that curve in just a second.
So the area under the curve between
two ordinates, such as X equals A and
X equals B, where B is bigger than A,
that represents the probability
that X lies between A and B.
So, you would express that
probability as the probability of X
greater than A and less than B.
So if you remember from
continuous distributions,
you can only take the probability for
a range of values.
So, in this case, we're discussing
the probability that X is between A and B.
So let's go ahead and look at the curve.
I'm just gonna scroll down here for
a second.
So I'm using this image from Wikipedia for
the normal distribution.
So you have the probability
on the Y axis and
the values on the X axis, and there's
some interesting stuff going on here.
There's tons of different little things,
but let's go ahead and
look at the basics first.
So it has a lower tail on the left and
an upper tail on the right.
So it has these two tails,
and the curve is symmetric so
you can see that the right hand side
is symmetric to the left hand side.
Now the peak occurs at the mean, so
this peak of that normal
distribution occurs at the mean.
So, X with a bar over it, and then
what the standard deviation does to your
curve is it gives it a different shape.
If you have a really
small standard deviation,
then you're gonna have a narrow and
tall normal distribution curve.
And if you have a large
standard deviation,
you'll have a shallower and fatter curve.
It's gonna be a little flat.
So for the normal distributions, you can
see what percentages of values lie between
a plus or minus of the standard deviation.
So about 68% of your values lie
between one standard deviation.
95% of your values lie between plus or
minus two standard deviations,
and then 99.7 lie between
three standard deviations.
Great, and
you can see that here on that chart.
Cool.
So then there's also Z score values, and
that just counts how many
standard deviations you are away.
So plus or minus one Z score
is the same as just plus or
minus one standard deviation for
the normal distribution.
Great, and
you can check out that Wikipedia image.
There's tons of information here.
This is just a mild introduction to it.
So let's learn how to use scipy
to create a normal distribution.
Here I'm just importing matplotlib as mpl,
pyplot as plt, and
calling that inline function so I can see
my normal distribution in my notebook.
So from scipy I'm gonna
import stats library.
I'll set the mean and
set the standard deviation.
Then I'm gonna create a range using numpy
arrange, which we've seen a bunch in
the past, and I'll set it from negative
four to four, with a step size of 0.01.
Then creating the normal distribution for
the range, I can just say stats dot norm
dot PDF, so probability density function,
and then the arguments I'm gonna pass is,
the range, I wanna create that
normal distribution for it.
And then its mean and
its standard deviation.
And I'll set that equal to Y.
And then all I'm gonna
do is say PLT dot plot,
X, Y, and don't worry about these fills,
they're not used in this case.
So all I really did was
just PLT dot plot here.
Great, and now we see our plot, and
that's what our theoretical
normal distribution looks like.
So we can also use numpy to
create the normal distribution.
You can import numpy as np, set the mean
and standard deviation, so I'll say mu and
sigma is, zero and 0.1 in respectively,
and now I can grab up to a,
well, up to as many random numbers I
want from the normal distribution.
And I can do that by saying np
dot random dot normal methods.
And I'm gonna pass my mean and
standard deviation, and
then as an argument,
the number of values I want.
So in this case I just
want 1,000 random numbers,
I'll put that as a norm set, and
now let's plot it using seaborn, so
I'll import seaborn as SNS, and
I'll plot a histogram of it.
So I'm gonna plot that 1,000
random numbers I just grabbed from
the normal distribution using numpy,
and I'll set my bins equal to 50.
And there we have it, pretty much
looks like a normal distribution.
Interesting that there's
a little dip here.
Okay, so there's a ton of information
to go over for the normal distribution.
It's one of the most well
studied distributions.
So this notebook really just serves as
a very mild introduction to the entire
study of the normal distribution.
So if you want more information, just
check out these following resources and
the links here.
All right, great, thanks.